# normalized_contour_curvature

This repository contains all code and data associated with "Image cognition using contour curvature statistics" (A. Marantan, I. Tolkova, L. Mahadevan).


The "code" folder contains scripts divided across six independent parts:

1. Examples and Interpretation: this script shows the application and interpretation of normalized contour curvature (NCC) when applied to a dataset of object images, varying in animacy and size.

2. Analysis of Animacy/Size Stimuli: this script implements a Bayesian binary classifier to distinguish between the animacy (animate vs inanimate) and size (large vs small) object categories based solely on NCC.

3. Analysis of Text/Face/Tetris Stimuli: this script characterizes a dataset of alpha-numeric characters, cartoon faces, and Tetris shapes through principal component analysis over normalized contour curvature.

4. Analysis of Viewpoint and Illumination: this script examines robustness across varying viewpoint and illumination conditions by examining the images from the Amsterdam Library of Object Images with multidimensional scaling.

5. Validating Theoretical Model: this script numerically validates the NCC probability distributions derived for Gaussian-correlated Gaussian random fields.

6. Generative Model: this script presents implements the model for generating artificial images for a given NCC distribution.


The "stimuli" folder contains the images used in this work:

ALOI: these photos of households objects under varying illumination and viewpoint conditions are taken directly from the Amsterdam Library of Object Images. For more information, please refer to *J. M. Geusebroek, G. J. Burghouts, and A. W. M. Smeulders. The Amsterdam library of object images. Int. J. Comput. Vision, 61(1), 103-112 (2005).*

AnimacySize: these stimuli were used with permission from *T. Konkle, and A. Caramazza. Tripartite organization of the ventral stream by animacy and object size. Journal of Neuroscience, 33(25), 10235-10242 (2013).*

SymbolsPatterns: these stimuli were used with permission from *K. Srihasam, J. Vincent, and M. Livingstone. Novel domain formation reveals proto-architecture in inferotemporal cortex. Nat Neurosci 17, 1776–1783 (2014).*


The "calculations" folder contains intermediate calculations generated by the above scripts, saved to simplify figure generation.
